.\"             -*-Nroff-*-
.\"
.TH g3cat 1 "27 Oct 93" "greenie" "mgetty+sendfax manual"
.IX g3cat
.SH NAME
g3cat \- concatenate multiple g3 documents
.SH SYNOPSIS
g3cat [\-l] [\-a] g3-file1 ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "Group 3 fax"
.IX fax
.I "g3cat "
concatenates g3 files. These can either be 'raw', that is,
bitmaps packed according to the CCITT T.4 standard for one-dimensional
bitmap encoding, or 'digifax' files, created by GNU's GhostScript
package with the
.B "digifax "
drivers. Its output is a concatenation of all the input files, in raw G3
format, with two white lines in between.
.sp
If a \- is given as input file, stdin is used.
.sp
If the input data is malformed, a warning is printed to stderr, and the
output file will have a blank line at this place.

.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-a "
byte-align the end-of-line codes (EOL) in the file. Every EOL will end at
a byte boundary, that is, with a \001 byte.
.TP
.B "\-l "
separate files with a one-pixel wide black line.
.TP
.B "\-h <blank lines>"
specifies the number of blank lines
.I g3cat
should prepend to each page. Default is 0.

.PP
.SH "Example"
The following example will put a header line on a given g3 page, 'page1'
and put the result into 'page2':

echo '$header' | pbmtext | pbmtog3 | g3cat \- page1 >page2

.SH FILES
.ta
--
.fi

.SH BUGS
.I "g3cat "
could be smarter about handling erroneous g3 data, filling a malformed
line with white pixels up to the proper width.

.I "g3cat "
should pad files that are less than 1728 pixels wide to the required
width.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
g3topbm(1), sendfax(8), faxspool(1)

.SH AUTHORS
.I g3cat
is Copyright (C) 1993 by Gert Doering, <gert@greenie.muc.de>
