Hi all,

this is a new vgetty beta release. As desasters tend to happen, when you do
not have time for them, I destroyed my working copy of the voice source code
and had to reload the last checked in version from the CVS archive. That
means, I might have missed some patches mailed to me. Please everyone, who
mailed me a patch: Check if the patch is included in the new release and if
not, please mail me the patch again. Thanks!!! I apologize for this stupid
mistake.

Apart from that, a few bugs were fixed and the Perl interface is now finally
part of vgetty. Since it is far better then the shell, I would like to
encourage everyone to switch over to that new Perl interface. I didn't have
time to test this new release, so be careful. Keep your old copy of the
sources!

If you plan to submit buxfixes or changes to me, please keep in mind: I can
only accept a unified diff against the latest released mgetty/vgetty version
unfortunately. Everything else is more work for me and I don't have the time
for that. You can produce a unified diff by first copying the original
unchanged file to something like file.c.orig and then use the command:
 
  diff -u file.c.orig file.c > patch_for_marc

Thanks a lot!

Please have a look at the voice/ToDo file. If there is something missing,
that you would like to see, please let me know, I probably add it to the
ToDo list. If there is something you want to do, please get in contact with
me first, to avoid, that two people are working on the same problem.

Also if you did something for vgetty and I didn't put you in the voice/Credits
file, please mail me! I don't want to forget someone, but I probably did
already.

The new release is included in the latest mgetty-beta on alpha.greenie.net
as always. See http://alpha.greenie.net/mgetty for details.

Enjoy,
Marc

$Id: Announce,v 1.5 1998/09/09 21:06:09 gert Exp $
